Partner Experience: update platform server prerequisites (#143) (#170)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/run-platform-server/prerequisites.mdx

sidebar_position: 10
---

> The Horizon service is responsible for synchronizing with the Stellar network and processing ledger data. It performs the following functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Horizon service is responsible for synchronizing with the Stellar network and processing ledger data. We recommend reading the [Running section](./running.mdx) as a primer on scope of Horizon's services before diving into compute pre-requisites:
```

and for consideration, remove the 3 bullets for ingest, tx sub, api on lines 8 - 10 as the suggested link to Running covers that.

> - Data ingestion: It ingests data from the decentralized Stellar network.

Reviewer: might be good to link `Data ingestion` to ingestion.mdx?

- Transaction submission: It submits transactions to the Stellar network.
- API serving: It serves API requests.

> The Horizon service can be deployed on bare metal or a virtual machine. It is natively supported on both Linux and Windows operating systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Horizon service can be [installed](./installing.mdx) on bare metal or a virtual machine. It is natively supported on both Linux and Windows operating systems.
```

> At a minimum, a compute instance and a PostgreSQL server is needed to run the Horizon service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a minimum, following the [Single Instance Deployment model](./configuring.mdx#single-instance-deployment) will require two compute instances:
* one compute instance for Horizon
* one compute instance for PostgreSQL server.
```

> To run the Horizon service with all three functions on a single compute instance, the minimum hardware specifications are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Horizon, we recommend a single compute profile which is applicable for single or multiple instances, the minimum hardware specifications are:
```

> **For the compute instance:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Horizon compute instance:**
```
and remove lines 16-17

- CPU: x cores
- RAM: x GB
- Storage: SSD with a capacity of x GB

> **For the PostgreSQL database instance:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**PostgreSQL database server compute instance:**
```

- CPU: x cores
- RAM: x GB
- Storage: SSD with a capacity of x TB (NVMe or Direct Attached Storage) capable of handling >xk IOPS (I/O operations per second).

These specifications consider a 30-day retention window for data storage. For a longer retention window, the system requirements will change accordingly. Consult the [ingestion](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-api-server/ingestion) for details on data ingestion and history retention, and managing storage requirements.

**Network**

- The compute instance must be able to connect to the PostgreSQL database. The default port for PostgreSQL is 5432.

> - A stable and fast Internet connection is recommended to ensure efficient communication with the Stellar network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A stable and fast network connection with outbound path to internet is recommended for any Horizon compute instance running the ingestion role to ensure it has efficient link to remote hosts in the [quorum set](https://developers-pr168.previews.kube001.services.stellar-ops.com/docs/run-core-node/configuring#choosing-your-quorum-set) for the chosen Stellar network as network transaction data will emit from these hosts and received by Horizon instance performing ingestion through its local captive core sub-process. Ideally, you will configure Horizon with `NETWORK` config parameter from (Configuring)[./configuring.mdx], which automatically generates the list of hosts for quorum set, and you can obtain this generated list of hosts anytime with `horizon --show-network-quorum [testnet|pubnet]`
```

This suggests a new Horizon cli flag usage - `horizon --show-network-quorum`, to show the quorum set hosts on console so, therefore users can configure firewalls, etc per that list of hosts.

Author: Created [GH issue](https://github.com/stellar/go/issues/4954) for adding "--show-network-quorum" command

Author: updated.

> **Production Setup**

Reviewer: Maybe mention the production focus in general as part of the pre-amble at top and re-label this as Multi-Instance?

Author: done.

> For a full-scale production setup, multiple instances of Horizon can be run, with each instance performing one or more functions. For details on achieving high availability, redundancy, and high throughput, refer to the [scaling](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-api-server/scaling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on prerequisites for high availability, redundancy, and high throughput, refer to the [scaling strategy](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-api-server/scaling) first, which will help plan how many [instances of Horizon](.configuring.mdx#multiple-instance-deployment) to deploy. 
```

Author: updated

sidebar_position: 10
---

The Horizon service is responsible for synchronizing with the Stellar network and processing ledger data. To understand the scope of Horizon's services, please read the [configuring](./configuring.mdx) section before you move on to the prerequisites for computation.

The Horizon service can be [installed](./installing.mdx) on bare metal or a virtual machine. It is natively supported on both Linux and Windows operating systems.

**Single Instance Deployment model**

> For a basic setup using the [Single Instance Deployment model](./configuring.mdx#single-instance-deployment), you will need two distinct compute instances:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a basic setup using the [Single Instance Deployment model](./configuring.mdx#single-instance-deployment), you will need a sum of two distinct compute profiles:
```

used 'compute profile', as the horizon and db could be on the same host o/s, as long as its resources = sum of both mentioned here correct?

Author: Yes, I suppose.

- One for hosting the Horizon service.
- Another for hosting the PostgreSQL server.

The minimum hardware specifications to effectively run Horizon are as follows:

**_Horizon Compute Instance:_**

- CPU: 4 cores
- RAM: 32 GB
- Storage: SSD with a capacity of 100 GB

**_PostgreSQL Database Server Compute Instance:_**

- CPU: 4 cores
- RAM: 32 GB
- Storage: SSD with a capacity of 2 TB (NVMe or Direct Attached Storage) capable of handling at least 7K IOPS (I/O operations per second).

Please note that a minimum of PostgreSQL version 12 is required.

These specifications assume a 30-day retention window for data storage. For a longer retention window, the system requirements will be higher. For more information about data ingestion, history retention, and managing storage, check the [ingestion](./ingestion.mdx) section.

**Multiple Instance Deployment**

> To achieve high availability, redundancy, and high throughput, explore the [scaling](./scaling.mdx) strategy. It provides detailed prerequisites and guidelines to determine the appropriate [number of Horizon instances](./configuring.mdx#multiple-instance-deployment) to deploy.

Reviewer: hmm, do we need to update scaling.mdx, it hasn't been touched as of the rest of partner experience tickets, maybe it falls under the purview of prerequisites?

Author: Ok, I'll take a look at the scaling doc.

**Network Access**

- Ensure that the Horizon instance can establish a connection with the PostgreSQL database instance. The default port for PostgreSQL is 5432.

> - A stable and fast network connection with the Internet is required for any Horizon instance running the ingestion role. This is to ensure it has efficient connectivity to remote hosts in the [quorum set](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-core-node/configuring#choosing-your-quorum-set) for the chosen Stellar network. During ingestion, the Horizon instance communicates with these hosts, receiving network transaction data through its local captive core sub-process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A stable and fast network connection with the Internet is required for any Horizon instance running the ingestion role. This is to ensure it has efficient outbound connectivity to remote hosts in the [quorum set](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-core-node/configuring#choosing-your-quorum-set) and [archive urls](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-core-node/configuring#history) for the chosen Stellar network. During ingestion, the Horizon instance communicates with these hosts, receiving network transaction data through its local captive core sub-process.
```

sidebar_position: 10
---

The Horizon service is responsible for synchronizing with the Stellar network and processing ledger data. We recommend reading the [configuring](./configuring.mdx) section as a primer on scope of Horizon's services before diving into compute pre-requisites.

The Horizon service can be [installed](./installing.mdx) on bare metal or a virtual machine. It is natively supported on both Linux and Windows operating systems.

**Single Instance Deployment model**

At a minimum, following the [Single Instance Deployment model](./configuring.mdx#single-instance-deployment) will require two compute instances:

- one compute instance for Horizon
- one compute instance for PostgreSQL server.

To run Horizon, we recommend a single compute profile which is applicable for single or multiple instances, the minimum hardware specifications are:

**_Horizon compute instance:_**

- CPU: x cores
- RAM: x GB
- Storage: SSD with a capacity of x GB

> **_PostgreSQL database server compute instance:_**

Reviewer: this is currently a placeholder, we will state min compute requirements for postgres here correct? This seems like good place to also stipulate the postgres server version requirements, such as from team discussion. Just for consideration, maybe we relocate the low level postgres server configs mentioned in [Configuring](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/blob/partner_experience/docs/run-platform-server/configuring.mdx#L138), inline here instead, to keep all postgres/vendor specifics about the db here in one place, then rest of docs just refer to postgres more generically as the database. 

CC'ing @tamirms for postgres context
